
--- Page 346 ---
Page 20 of 75 
 
Schedule-II 
Terms and Reference for Contractual Employment 
Position Title: - Chief Technology Officer (CTO) 
Report To: -  Director General, PERA 
Wing: -  IT & Communication 
Purpose of the Position:  
CTO shall be responsible for providing technical leadership to the team of IT professionals.  He shall 
assist the Director General in ensuring the IT -enabled solutions for all functions of PERA including 
digitization of processes at the Headquarters and Enforcement Stations level. 
Areas of Responsibilities:  
 Lead the IT & Communication Wing of PERA and responsible for development, deployment, 
upgradation, upscaling and troubleshooting of all IT-related technical applications  / software 
products. 
 Monitoring deliverables of software development of the projects by managing development 
lifecycle. 
 Responsible for all the activities of the software development team to ensure timely delivery 
and ensure they adhere to development international standards. 
 Monitor changes in the technology sector to discover ways organizations can improve and 
develop IT Infrastructure. 
 Research new technologies to strengthen the organization responsible for technology delivery. 
 Provide technical leadership to the team of professionals for Information Technology projects, 
infrastructure and data & cyber security to prevent security breaches and keep information 
confidential. 
 Develop, monitor and enhance an information security management framework. 
 Plan and direct the implementation of new IT infrastructure. 
 Identify areas and ways through which organization's technological assets can be improved. 
 Development & Management of MIS & GIS functions and its monitoring dashboards. 
 Ensure smooth electronic communication (connectivity and bandwidth) at multiple Government 
departments.  
Qualification and Experience: 
i MS or MPhi l. (First Division) in Computer Science , Software Engineering  or Information 
Technology from a recognized University; and 
ii 10 years’ post qualification experience in the relevant field including at least four years’ 
experience in public sector. 
OR 
i Master’s degree or BS (First Division) in Computer Science , Software Engineering  or 
Information Technology from a recognized University; and 
ii 12 years’ post qualification experience in the  relevant field including at least five years’ 
experience in public sector.  
Note: Experience in private entities shall be accepted if such entity is registered with SECP, 
Registrar of Firms or any other Public Sector Regulatory Authority. 
Competencies & Personal Attributes: 
 Strong leadership, team building and problem-solving abilities 
 Inquisitive and detailed oriented with strong analytical skills  
 Excellent communication skills, i.e. written and verbal 
Appointing Authority: 
Appointment shall be made by Director General on the recommendation s of the Contractual 
Employment Committee.  
Salary and Benefits: 
SPPP-1 + any other benefit admissible to SPPP-1 as mentioned in Schedule-III.  
--- Page 347 ---
Page 21 of 75 
 
Position Title: - Manager (Development) 
Report To: -  Chief Technology Officer (CTO) 
Wing: -  IT & Communication  
Purpose of the Position:  
Responsible for maximizing the productivity / performance of IT Applications / Custom Developed 
Software / Web Portals by directing the daily, weekly, and monthly activities. To provide leadership, 
motivation, training, and development of the workforce; process and procedure development to 
achieve operational excellence. 
Areas of Responsibilities:  
 To create and document a conceptual and detailed design and write a code based on 
conceptual description of the business logic. 
 To design and development of database components as per requirement of software. 
 To compile and write documentation of software development and subsequent revisions 
inserting comments in the coded instructions. 
 To facilitate operational and technical personnel to clarify program inten t, identify problems, 
suggest, and implement changes. 
 To assist Business, Operational & Financial teams to define and resolve problems in running 
software applications/programs as per the software requirement specification. 
 To maintain confidentiality with  regards to the information being processed, stored or 
accessed. 
 To test the developed application/component in the UAT/Test environments and deployed on 
Production. 
 Prepares and installs solutions by determining and designing system specifications, standards, 
and programming. 
 Maintenance of the systems once they are up and running. 
 Work on Special Projects/Assignments as and when needed by the organization.  
 Partner with cross-functional teams (UX, Data, Security) for seamless integration. 
 Implement DevOps practices (CI/CD, automation, monitoring). 
 Ensure scalability, security, and performance of software solutions. 
 Collaborate with Product Management, QA, DevOps, and other stakeholders to align priorities. 
 Ensure adherence to Agile/Scrum or other development methodologies. 
 Any other duty / assignment assigned by the Sr. Manager. 
Qualification and Experience: 
i Bachelor’s degree (Hons) in IT, Computer Sciences or Software Engineering or any  other 
relevant /   similar degree from a recognized University; and 
 5 years’ post qualification experience in the relevant field including at least four years’ 
experience in public sector along with 2 years ’ experience  in Application Development 
Operations, System Integrations, Business Dashboards, Business Intelligence (ETL to Report 
Designing), Databases Administration.  
Note: Experience in private entities shall be accepted if such entity is registered with SECP, 
Registrar of Firms or any other Public Sector Regulatory Authority. 
Competencies & Personal Attributes: 
 Dot Net Core, MVC Entity Framework, SQL Server, Rest API, Angular JS / + AJAX, Bootstrap, 
Power BI, C#, WCF/REST services, multi-Threading. 
 Work on elements of SDLC life cycle (Build, design, development, deployment) 
 Experience of Microsoft Azure and other cloud services. 
 Experience in writing backend components and Restful APIs. 
 Develop technical interfaces, specifications, and architecture. 
 Third Party Components Telerik / Dev Express / Crystal Report / RDLC. 
 Strong knowledge of API lifecycle management platforms. 
 Good command on Microsoft SQL Server stored procedure, views, Functions, database ERP 
architecture, query optimization. 
 Knowledge of technologies like Node JS, React JS, Mongo DB 
Appointment: 
--- Page 349 ---
Page 23 of 75 
 
Position Title: - Manager (Infrastructure & Networks) 
Report To: -  Chief Technology Officer (CTO) 
Wing: -  IT & Communication 
Purpose of the Position:  
Responsible for maximizing the performance of IT infrastructure by directing the daily, weekly, and 
monthly activities. To provide leadership, motivation, training, and development of the workforce; 
process and procedure development to achieve operational excellence. Provide event driven 
operations monitoring, performance tracking and auditing capability. 
Areas of Responsibilities:  
 Perform various IT Infrastructure Administration tasks including the following areas of 
responsibility:  
 Data Centre Management 
 Core Network Infrastructure  
 Firewalls, Routers and Switches  
 Implement policies and procedures to meet service expectations and quality for Operations 
users through Firewall/Domain Controller. 
 Review the IT infrastructure to meet upcoming needs and expansion plans of the company. 
 Monitor network performance and optimize the network for optimal speed and availability. 
 Servers Management and their uptime assurance. 
 Deploy, configure, and update Domain Controller Group Policies. 
 Deploy, configure, and upgrade network software’s, such as enterprise antivirus or other 
remote support programs. 
 Installation of all types of updates like Windows 11, Windows Server 2016/2019/2022, Antivirus 
and Office 365 & MS Exchange Management. 
 Server and Network Equipment Management. 
 Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect IT Infrastructure from 
Internal/External attacks. 
 Responsible for Implementation of Policies, Procedures and SOPs. 
 Provide a high level of Technical Support to all Users. 
 Vendor Management with Procurement and Finance for their payments. 
 Procurement of IT Equipment & Services through Public Tenders with contracts. 
 Respond to Trouble tickets raised by Help Desk and is responsible for the resolution.  
 All IT Infra & systems admin istration functions like User Access control, Patch management, 
Virus Management, Spam Management, etc. 
 Coordination with Principals / Vendors on all IT related purchases including laying.  
 Manage staff and operations of data center 
Qualification and Experience: 
i Bachelor’s degree (Hons) in IT, Computer Sciences , Telecommunication  or Software 
Engineering or any other relevant /   similar degree from a recognized university; and 
ii 5 years’ post qualification relevant experience including at least 3 years’ experience in public 
sector. 
Note: Experience in private entities shall be accepted if such entity is registered with SECP, 
Registrar of Firms or any other Public Sector Regulatory Authority. 
Competencies & Personal Attributes: 
 A hands-on management approach that encourages change and creative problem-solving. 
 Ability to manage and maintain the operation of the data center and IT Infrastructure. 
 Ability to work well in a fast-paced and high-intensity environment. 
 Strong knowledge of Key Account Management. 
 Strong relationship-building skills. 
 Ability to groom. 
 Strong planning, execution, monitoring, and administrative skills. 
 Good knowledge of market trends of Technology. 
--- Page 351 ---
Page 25 of 75 
 
Position Title: - Manager (Digital Strategy & Communication) 
Report To: -  Chief Technology Officer 
Wing: -  IT & Communication 
Purpose of the Position:  
To assist Chief Technology Officer in designing and implementing the communication strategy of PERA 
through electronic, print and social media. To assist DG in making a well -crafted media strategy to 
ensure advertising and marketing efforts reach the right target audience. 
 
Areas of Responsibilities:  
 Will design and implement awareness campaigns related to PERA 
 To devise a launching media strategy for PERA 
 Will carry out product designing and marketing for PERA 
 To create awareness among masses regarding PERA’s procedures and scheduled laws 
 To highlight PERA’s defined objective to light 
 To utilise various tools including Press conferences, press releases, short films, short 
documentaries, streamers and content for all types of media 
 Media management and image building for PERA 
 Any other duties and responsibilities as per the directions of the Competent Authority. 
Qualification and Experience: 
i Masters in Mass Communication, Marketing, Public Relations, Graphics Designing, 
Computer Sciences, Advertising, or equivalent from a recognized University. 
ii Continuous 20-25 years of production career and experience in mainstream TV and social 
media. Experienced in open and closed-circuit communication and impact. Preferably must 
have teaching experience in mainstream Universities. 
 Note: Experience in private entities shall be accepted if such entity is registered with SECP, 
Registrar of Firms or any other Public Sector Regulatory Authority. 
Competencies & Personal Attributes: 
 Expert in Ideation and proposal and brand activation 
 Must have knowledge of launching tools 
 Ideation expert in designing campaigns, using various tools 
 Expert in Production Design and campaigns 
 He must be Expert in core production,  
 He must have thorough understanding of opinion making and brain washing 
 Possess ample diversified experience in pre and postproduction processes in various genres. 
 Expert in communication, persuasion, opinion making and Transformation 
 Have ample experience and knowledge of tools of communication and trends on social media 
 He must possess technical knowledge of lighting, camera and postproduction and background 
scores. 
 Must have though understanding of objective of scheduled laws of PERA. 
 Must know all Ins and Outs of Production process 
 Must claim to have hands on pulse of Target masses 
 He mu st have close contact with news and entertainment celebrities and social media 
influencers 
Appointment: 
Appointment shall be made by Director General on the recommendation of Contractual Employment 
Committee.  
Salary and Benefits: 
SPPP-3 + any other benefit admissible to SPPP-3 as mentioned in Schedule-III 
 
 
 